# Week 1
`9.5.24`

It's the first week! 

Duties to complete before next week:
* share link to this blog in class spreadsheet
* read Bret Victor + Timo Arnall pieces
* complete interactive electronics labs

I wanted to make a mecha suit previously - explained in [[fall/index]] - but now I feel that I may want to make a game console designed for interactive fiction instead.

I'm thinking tangible computing. My ideas may change further.

## Bret Victor notes
> Hands do two things. They are two utterly amazing things, and you rely on them every moment of the day
I don't appreciate the assumption that all readers are able-bodied and possess hands. 

> Go ahead and pick up a book. Open it up to some page.
Bret continues to make assumptions about an able-bodied reader.


The whole essay reeks of ["extreme technological optimism"](https://eprint.iacr.org/2015/1162.pdf). I don't feel that Bret is addressing me or people with my  concerns.

> Before we think about how we should interact with our Tools Of The Future, let's consider what a tool is in the first place.

But who is "we"? I really dislike when authors try to say that they and the reader make up some kind of "we" without describing what that "we" is like or how it came about.

Being generous - I know that ~the point~ is to differentiate the tactile expressiveness of everyday things from the way touch screens rarely provide tactile or haptic feedback. 

I am interested in tangible computing not because of some hypothetical future in which "we" are also marching toward progress, but because of the real-world benefits of tangible computing for accessibility.

We have different visions of tangible computing. Maybe we aren't even both thinking of the same thing, because Bret never says "tangible computing" by name.



## Timo Arnall notes

Is there a reason we are reading pieces from people who worked at Apple? 

Okay. I like this reading a lot better. Timo also uses that dreaded "we", but the points made are more amenable.

I really like discussing the myths around immaterial computing! [Programmed Visions: Software and Memory](https://direct.mit.edu/books/oa-monograph/3341/Programmed-VisionsSoftware-and-Memory) is such a good book that I'm thinking about reading Timo's arguments.

Natural and intuitive design, to add to Timo's disdain, is often natural or intuitive in certain contexts or certain cultures. There is no monolithic human experience, in my opinion, to design computers for. There is no singular, monolithic human intuition that can be leaned on to make designs more natural.

I do think that the fascination with invisible, or immaterial interfaces goes back to [Wendy Chun's timeline](https://direct.mit.edu/books/oa-monograph/3341/Programmed-VisionsSoftware-and-Memory) of the quest for programmable machines.

By design, computers (standard von Neumann computers bought at Best Buy) obscure their inner workings. The trend is to do more of this, not less.

### Lab Notes

(to be continued)

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[fall/index]: ../../index.md "beginning a new semester"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
